# Reference Sheet: VoiceThread

This reference sheet will lead you through the process of getting started with VoiceThread. VoiceThread allows conversations to be conducted around a set of images, videos or slides.

## Navigating to VoiceThread

-   Log in to Canvas, such as by navigating to <http://canvas.iu.edu/>, and then navigate to this course.

-   Find the VoiceThread Link in the course sidebar and click on it.

![](media/image1.png)

<center><img src="media/image1.png" width="50%" /></center>

-   At this point, you will be taken to the “VoiceThread Setup” page within Canvas. For ease of use, it is recommended that you click on the “Open in a new tab” link.

<center><img src="media/image2.png" width="50%" /></center>

-   Now click on the button labeled “Individual VT,” which will bring
    you to your individual VoiceThread Dashboard.

<center><img src="media/image3.png" width="50%" /></center>

-   You should now see a list of recent activity, which will probably
    include an VoiceThreads you have created recently and possibly any
    VoiceThreads you have left comments on. In order to create your own
    VoiceThread, click on the “Create new VoiceThread” button in the top
    left corner of the page.

<center><img src="media/image4.png" width="50%" /></center>

-   Once you click on the button, the page will change and you will be
    provided with the “Create new VoiceThread” screen. You can go ahead
    and start creating. To get started, you want to add some media.
    Click on the large “+ Add Media” button, which will provide you with
    a number of different options.

<center><img src="media/image5.png" width="50%" /></center>

## Adding Your Own Files

You can use your own files, such as images or even PDFs or
    PowerPoint slides. If you want to use your own picture or pictures,
    click on the “My Computer” option.

<center><img src="media/image6.png" width="50%" /></center>

Find the file you want to use and then upload your file. If this is
    the first

## Selecting Media from an Online Source

-   You also have the option of searching for and using

<center><img src="media/image7.png" width="50%" /></center>

-   The screen will refresh with a number of different sources available
    to you. These instructions will walk you through obtaining a photo
    through the online photo sharing service Flickr, but the process is
    the same for all sources. So, click on the option.

*Step 8.* You have the choice of exploring different categories (such as
“Animals,” “Computers,” and “Science”) or searching for a word or
phrase. If you choose to explore a category, just click on the category.
If you choose to search, type the word or phrase into the search box and
hit the \[ENTER\] key on your keyboard.

*Step 9.* The page will refresh again and provide the results of your
search or the available photos in your selected category. Scroll through
and then click once on a photograph you would like to use; it should now
appear with a blue border around it.

*Step 10.* In addition to the blue border around your selected photo,
notice that a button appears. Go ahead and click on this button to
import the photo into your VoiceThread.

*Step 11.* Note that a “ ” message appears. You can repeat the media
importing process as many times as you wish. When you are done, click on
the close button in the shape of an to return to your VoiceThread.

**Adding Thread Settings**

-   If this is the first VoiceThread will the prompt you to enter some
    “Thread Settings.” This information describes your VoiceThread
    project as a whole, not just the one image or slide you uploaded
    or selected. Go ahead and give your VoiceThread an appropriate Title
    and Description and then click on the \[Save\] button.


*Step 12.* Once you have your photos set, you are now ready to add
comments to your VoiceThread. On the main VoiceThread screen, click on
the option. The screen will refresh with an expanded view of your
VoiceThread.

*Step 13.* When you are viewing the VoiceThread, you may view existing
comments by clicking on the avatar or image of the person who has
already left a comment. You may also press the button, which will move
through all existing comments in order. See the image below for short
descriptions of each button on the screen.

*Step 14.* To leave a comment, click on the button just above the bottom
of the screen.

*Step 15.* You will be offered a number of different options, such as
adding a text comment, comment by phone, recorded audio comment, video
comment, or uploading a file. Adding a comment by phone may cost you
money, so this is not recommended. Most comments you are expected to
contribute have nothing to do with separate files, so instructions for
uploading a file are not included here.

*Step 16.* To add a text comment, click on the text comment option (it
is represented by ). You will then be presented with a text pop-up box.
Type in the box and then click on the button when you are ready. Your
comment then gets added to the end of the timeline.

*Step 17.* To add a recorded audio comment, click on the audio comment
option (it is represented by a microphone ). The first time you click on
this option, you may be asked to approve VoiceThread’s use of your
computer’s microphone. Click the button.

*Step 18.* You will see a countdown screen, which is your cue as to when
recording will start. Once it counts down, you can talk and your
computer’s microphone will record you. When you are ready, click on the
button at the bottom of the screen. VoiceThread will play the recording
back to you, and if you are satisfied, click on the button and your
voice comment will be added to the end of the timeline. If you are not
satisfied, click the button and you can re-record your comment.

*Step 19.* To add a recorded video comment, click on the video comment
option (it is represented by a video camera ). The first time you click
on this option, you may be asked to approve VoiceThread’s use of your
computer’s camera, much like recording an audio comment. Click the
button.

*Step 20.* Just like with audio recording, you will see a countdown
screen, which is your cue as to when recording will start. Once it
counts down, you can talk and your computer’s camera will record you.
When you are ready, click on the button at the bottom of the screen.
VoiceThread will play the video back to you, and if you are satisfied,
click on the button and your voice comment will be added to the end of
the timeline. If you are not satisfied, click the button and you can
re-record your comment.

*Step 21.* When you are done, click on the close button in the shape of
an to return to your VoiceThread. You are now ready to share. Go ahead
and click on the button.

*Step 22.* We will be sharing our VoiceThreads in two ways. For the
first way, click on the option on the left side of the Sharing screen.

*Step 23.* The screen will change slightly. Make sure that and are
green; if not, click on them so that they turn green. Then, click on the
big blue button. You have now completed the first way of sharing.

*Step 24.* For the second way of sharing, click on the tab on the
Sharing screen.

*Step 25.* After the screen refreshes showing the “Basic” sharing
screen, make sure that the boxes next to `View` and `Comment` are
checked, and then click on the button.

*Step 26.* The link is then copied for you and you can paste it into a
posting on the Community of Practice Discussion Forum. To return back to
your VoiceThread main screen, click on the close () button.

*Step 27.* And that’s it!
