<span>****</span>  \

------------------------------------------------------------------------

This reference sheet will lead you through the process of getting
started with VoiceThread. VoiceThread allows conversations to be
conducted around a set of images, videos or slides. You are provided
with a Basic VoiceThread account for the duration of your studies at
Fairmont State University.

<span>2em*Step 1.*</span> Log in to Blackboard, such as through the
<https://my.fairmontstate.edu/> portal and then navigate to this course.
On the side panel, click on the link.

<span>2em*Step 2.*</span> The link is the second link. Go ahead and
click on it.

<span>2em*Step 3.*</span> At this point, you will be taken to your
“Dashboard” page. You are logged in so that you can comment on an
existing VoiceThread under your real identity.

<span>2em*Step 4.*</span> You should now see a list of recent activity,
which will probably include an VoiceThreads you have created recently
and possibly any VoiceThreads you have left comments on. In order to
create your own VoiceThread, click on the link on the bottom right
corner of the page.

<span>2em*Step 5.*</span> Once you click on , a new tab or window will
open with the “Create” screen in it. You can go ahead and start
creating.

<span>2em*Step 6.*</span> To get started, you want to add some media (in
this case, pictures). Click on the link, which will provide you with a
number of different options. If you want to use your own picture or
pictures, click on the option and then upload your file or files. We
recommend that you also take a look at the options available to you
through VoiceThread, so click on the option.

<span>2em*Step 7.*</span> The screen will refresh with a number of
different sources available to you. These instructions will walk you
through obtaining a photo through the online photo sharing service
Flickr, but the process is the same for all sources. So, click on the
option.

<span>2em*Step 8.*</span> You have the choice of exploring different
categories (such as “Animals,” “Computers,” and “Science”) or searching
for a word or phrase. If you choose to explore a category, just click on
the category. If you choose to search, type the word or phrase into the
search box and hit the \[ENTER\] key on your keyboard.

<span>2em*Step 9.*</span> The page will refresh again and provide the
results of your search or the available photos in your selected
category. Scroll through and then click once on a photograph you would
like to use; it should now appear with a blue border around it.

<span>2em*Step 10.*</span> In addition to the blue border around your
selected photo, notice that a button appears. Go ahead and click on this
button to import the photo into your VoiceThread.

<span>2em*Step 11.*</span> Note that a “ ” message appears. You can
repeat the media importing process as many times as you wish. When you
are done, click on the close button in the shape of an to return to your
VoiceThread.

<span>2em*Step 12.*</span> Once you have your photos set, you are now
ready to add comments to your VoiceThread. On the main VoiceThread
screen, click on the option. The screen will refresh with an expanded
view of your VoiceThread.

<span>2em*Step 13.*</span> When you are viewing the VoiceThread, you may
view existing comments by clicking on the avatar or image of the person
who has already left a comment. You may also press the button, which
will move through all existing comments in order. See the image below
for short descriptions of each button on the screen.

<span>2em*Step 14.*</span> To leave a comment, click on the button just
above the bottom of the screen.

<span>2em*Step 15.*</span> You will be offered a number of different
options, such as adding a text comment, comment by phone, recorded audio
comment, video comment, or uploading a file. Adding a comment by phone
may cost you money, so this is not recommended. Most comments you are
expected to contribute have nothing to do with separate files, so
instructions for uploading a file are not included here.

<span>2em*Step 16.*</span> To add a text comment, click on the text
comment option (it is represented by ). You will then be presented with
a text pop-up box. Type in the box and then click on the button when you
are ready. Your comment then gets added to the end of the timeline.

<span>2em*Step 17.*</span> To add a recorded audio comment, click on the
audio comment option (it is represented by a microphone ). The first
time you click on this option, you may be asked to approve VoiceThread’s
use of your computer’s microphone. Click the button.

<span>2em*Step 18.*</span> You will see a countdown screen, which is
your cue as to when recording will start. Once it counts down, you can
talk and your computer’s microphone will record you. When you are ready,
click on the button at the bottom of the screen. VoiceThread will play
the recording back to you, and if you are satisfied, click on the button
and your voice comment will be added to the end of the timeline. If you
are not satisfied, click the button and you can re-record your comment.

<span>2em*Step 19.*</span> To add a recorded video comment, click on the
video comment option (it is represented by a video camera ). The first
time you click on this option, you may be asked to approve VoiceThread’s
use of your computer’s camera, much like recording an audio comment.
Click the button.

<span>2em*Step 20.*</span> Just like with audio recording, you will see
a countdown screen, which is your cue as to when recording will start.
Once it counts down, you can talk and your computer’s camera will record
you. When you are ready, click on the button at the bottom of the
screen. VoiceThread will play the video back to you, and if you are
satisfied, click on the button and your voice comment will be added to
the end of the timeline. If you are not satisfied, click the button and
you can re-record your comment.

<span>2em*Step 21.*</span> When you are done, click on the close button
in the shape of an to return to your VoiceThread. You are now ready to
share. Go ahead and click on the button.

<span>2em*Step 22.*</span> We will be sharing our VoiceThreads in two
ways. For the first way, click on the option on the left side of the
Sharing screen.

<span>2em*Step 23.*</span> The screen will change slightly. Make sure
that and are green; if not, click on them so that they turn green. Then,
click on the big blue button. You have now completed the first way of
sharing.

<span>2em*Step 24.*</span> For the second way of sharing, click on the
tab on the Sharing screen.

<span>2em*Step 25.*</span> After the screen refreshes showing the
“Basic” sharing screen, make sure that the boxes next to `View` and
`Comment` are checked, and then click on the button.

<span>2em*Step 26.*</span> The link is then copied for you and you can
paste it into a posting on the Community of Practice Discussion Forum.
To return back to your VoiceThread main screen, click on the close ()
button.

<span>2em*Step 27.*</span> And that’s it!
